# Chapter 1 MySQL Shell Features
## Supported Languages <br>
MySQL Shell processes code written in JavaScript, Python and SQL. Any executed code is processed as one of these languages, based on the language that is currently active. <br>
## Interactive Code Execution <br>
Unicode text input is supported if the terminal in use supports it. Color terminals are supported. <br>
## Supported APIs <br>
The **AdminAPI** enables you to administer MySQL instances, using them to create InnoDB Clusters <br>
The **X DevAPI** enables developers to work with both relational and document data when MySQL Shell is connected to a MySQL server using the X Protocol.
## Utilities <br>
MySQL Shell includes the following utilities for working with MySQL:

1. An upgrade checker utility to verify whether MySQL server instances are ready for upgrade. Use ```util.checkForServerUpgrade()``` to access the upgrade checker.

2. A JSON import utility to import JSON documents to a MySQL Server collection or table. Use ```util.importJSON()``` to access the import utility.

3. A parallel table import utility that splits up a single data file and uses multiple threads to load the chunks into a MySQL table.

## Output Formats <br>
MySQL Shell can return results in table, tabbed, or vertical format, or as JSON output. [5.7 Output Formats](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-shell/8.0/en/mysql-shell-output-formats.html) <br>

# Chapter 2 MySQL Shell Commands
**Command** | **Alias/Shortcut** | **Description** | **Syntax** 
------------|----------- | --------------- | -----------
\help | \h or \? | Print help about MySQL Shell, or search the online help. | ```\? \connect``` 
\quit | \q or \exit | Exit MySQL Shell.
\ |  | In SQL mode, begin multiple-line mode.
\status | \s | Show the current MySQL Shell status.
\js , \py , \sql |  | Change execution mode
\connect | \c | Connect to a MySQL instance. | ```\connect --mysql root:password@127.0.0.1:3306``` or ```\connect --mysql root:password@127.0.0.1:33060```
\reconnect |  | Reconnect to the same MySQL instance. |
\disconnect |  | Disconnect the global session. |
\use | \u | Specify the schema to use. |
\source | \. or source (no backslash)  | Execute a script file using the active language. |
\warnings |\W  | Show any warnings generated by a statement. |
\nowarnings | 	\w  | Do not show any warnings generated by a statement. |
\history |  | View and edit command line history. |
\option |  | Query and change MySQL Shell configuration options.. |
\show |  | Run the specified report using the provided options and arguments. | ```show query [OPTIONS] [ARGS]``` or ```\watch query [OPTIONS] [ARGS]```
\edit | \e | Open a command in the default system editor then present it in MySQL Shell. |
\pager | \p | Configure the pager which MySQL Shell uses to display text.
\nopager |  | Disable any pager which MySQL Shell was configured to use.
\system | \! | Run the specified operating system command and display the results in MySQL Shell.


# Chapter 3 MySQL syntax
**Command** | **Description** | **Syntax** 
------------| --------------- | -----------
show databases | show all created database | ```show databases``` 
show tables | show all created tables inside the database | ```show tables``` 
desc {tableName}| view table schema | ```desc {tableName}```
insert into {tableName} (column1 , column2 ... ) values (value1 , value2 ...) | Insert to database table | ```insert into mygames (id , gameName) values (1 , "CAll Of Duty: WarZonew```
delete from {tableName}| delete all the rows and reutrn the number of deleted rows  | ```delete from mygames```
alter table {tableName} modify {columnName} {column_definition} | modify table schema  | ```alter table mygames modify gameName varchar(300) ```
create user {userName}@{ipAddress}  | Create user  | ```create user nodejs@127.0.0.1```
ALTER USER ‘root’@’localhost’ IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password BY ‘password’;  | alter user  | ```ALTER USER nodejs@127.0.0.1 IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password BY ‘Nodejs1997!’;```
grant all on {databaseName}.* to {userName}@{ipAddress}; | Grant a database privilages to anothe user   | ```grant all on test_db.* to nodejs@127.0.0.1; ```
show grants for {userName}@{ip address}; | Show all granted privileges | ```show grants for todoApp@127.0.0.1 ```
Constraint esablishing | Create talbe with constarint | ```create table projects (pid int not null, constraint project_const primary key(pid));  ```
auto increment | create a talbe with auto incremet | ```create table projects (pid int not null auto_increment,pname text not null ,  constraint project_const primary key(pid));
  ```


# Important
Under some circumstances, [CREATE USER](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/create-user.html) may be recorded in server logs or on the client side in a history file such as ~/.mysql_history, which means that cleartext passwords may be read by anyone having read access to that information. For information about the conditions under which this occurs for the server logs and how to control it, see Section 6.1.2.3, “Passwords and Logging”. For similar information about client-side logging, see Section 4.5.1.3, “mysql Client Logging”. <br>

# SET PASSWORD = 'auth_string';

  Any client who connects to the server using a nonanonymous account
  can change the password for that account. (In particular, you can
  change your own password.) To see which account the server
  authenticated you as, invoke the CURRENT_USER() function: <br>
  
  
[Reference - Mysql Documentation](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-shell/8.0/en/mysql-shell-commands.html)


